 Vercel confirms breach as hackers claim to be selling stolen data News Featured Latest PyPI package with 1.1M monthly downloads hacked to push infostealer FTC: Americans lost over $2.1 billion to social media scams in 2025 Canada arrests three for operating “SMS blaster” device in Toronto Home security giant ADT data breach affects 5.5 million people Robinhood account creation flaw abused to send phishing emails GlassWorm malware attacks return via 73 OpenVSX "sleeper" extensions Canada arrests three for operating “SMS blaster” device in Toronto Alleged Silk Typhoon hacker extradited to US for cyberespionage Tutorials Latest Popular How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11 How to use the Windows Registry Editor How to backup and restore the Windows Registry How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows Webinars Downloads Latest Most Downloaded Qualys BrowserCheck STOPDecrypter AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool Deals Categories eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security VPNs Popular Best VPNs How to change IP address Access the dark web safely Best VPN for YouTube Forums More Virus Removal Guides Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Send us a Tip! Welcome Guide Home News Security Vercel confirms breach as hackers claim to be selling stolen data Vercel confirms breach as hackers claim to be selling stolen data By Lawrence Abrams April 19, 2026 01:32 PM 1 Update 4/19/26: Added additional information from Vercel that was disclosed after publishing. Cloud development platform Vercel has disclosed a security incident after threat actors claimed to have breached its systems and are attempting to sell stolen data. Vercel is a cloud platform that provides hosting and deployment infrastructure for developers, with a strong focus on JavaScript frameworks. The company is known for developing Next.js, a widely used React framework, and for offering services such as serverless functions, edge computing, and CI/CD pipelines that enable developers to build, preview, and deploy applications. In a security bulletin published today, the company said a limited subset of customers was affected by a security breach. "We've identified a security incident that involved unauthorized access to certain internal Vercel systems," warns Vercel . "We are actively investigating, and we have engaged incident response experts to help investigate and remediate. We have notified law enforcement and will update this page as the investigation progresses." The company says its services have not been impacted and that it is working with impacted customers. Vercel says it is taking steps to protect its customers, advising them to review environment variables , use its sensitive environment variable feature , and to rotate secrets if needed. After publishing this story, Vercel updated its advisory to state that the breach stemmed from the compromise of a third-party AI tool's Google Workspace OAuth application. Vercel is advising Google Workspace administrators and Google account owners to check for the following application: OAuth App: 110671459871-30f1spbu0hptbs60cb4vsmv79i7bbvqj.apps.googleusercontent.com Vercel CEO Guillermo Rauch later shared additional details on X , stating that the initial access occurred after a Vercel employee's Google Workspace account was compromised via a breach at the AI platform Context.ai. According to Rauch, the attacker then escalated access from the compromised account into Vercel environments, where they were able to access environment variables that were not marked as sensitive and therefore not encrypted at rest. While intended to contain non-sensitive information, the attacker gained further access after enumerating these variables. "Vercel stores all customer environment variables fully encrypted at rest. We have numerous defense-in-depth mechanisms to protect core systems and customer data," Rauch said. "We do have a capability, however, to designate environment variables as 'non-sensitive.' Unfortunately, the attacker got further access through their enumeration." The company's investigation has confirmed that Next.js, Turbopack, and its other open-source projects remain safe. Vercel has also rolled out updates to its dashboard, including an overview page of environment variables and an improved interface for managing sensitive environment variables. Customers are strongly advised to review environment variables for sensitive information and enable the sensitive variable feature to ensure they are encrypted at rest. If you have any information regarding this incident or other undisclosed attacks, you can contact us confidentially via Signal at 646-961-3731 or at tips@bleepingcomputer.com. Hacker claims to be selling stolen Vercel data The disclosure comes after a threat actor claiming to be "ShinyHunters" posted on a hacking forum that they had breached Vercel and were selling access to company data. It should be noted that while the hacker claims to be part of the ShinyHunters group, threat actors linked to recent attacks attributed to the ShinyHunters extortion gang have denied to BleepingComputer that they are involved in this incident. In the forum post, the hacker claimed to be selling access keys, source code, and database data allegedly stolen from Vercel, along with access to internal deployments and API keys. "This is just from Linear as proof, but the access I'm about to give you includes multiple employee accounts with access to several internal deployments, API keys (including some NPM tokens and some GitHub tokens)," reads the forum post. A screenshot of a forum post shared by the threat actor on Telegram The attacker also shared a text file containing Vercel employee information, which consists of 580 data records containing names, Vercel email addresses, account status, and activity timestamps. They also shared a screenshot of what appears to be an internal Vercel Enterprise dashboard. BleepingComputer has not been able to independently confirm if the data or screenshot is authentic. In messages shared on Telegram, the threat actor also claimed they were in contact with Vercel regarding the incident and that they discussed an alleged ransom demand of $2 million. BleepingComputer contacted Vercel with additional questions about the breach, including whether any sensitive data or credentials were exposed and if they are negotiating with the attackers, and will update this story if we receive a response. Update 4/19/26 6:14 PM ET: Updated article to add further information disclosed by Vercel. Update 4/19/26 7:21 PM ET: Updated article with additional information from Vercel's CEO. 99% of What Mythos Found Is Still Unpatched. AI chained four zero-days into one exploit that bypassed both renderer and OS sandboxes. A wave of new exploits is coming. At the Autonomous Validation Summit (May 12 & 14), see how autonomous, context-rich validation finds what's exploitable, proves controls hold, and closes the remediation loop. Claim Your Spot Related Articles: Home security giant ADT data breach affects 5.5 million people Medtronic confirms breach after hackers claim 9 million records theft ADT confirms data breach after ShinyHunters leak threat Data breach at edtech giant McGraw Hill affects 13.5 million accounts McGraw-Hill confirms data breach following extortion threat Data Breach Security Incident ShinyHunters Vercel Lawrence Abrams Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies. Previous Article Next Article Comments abides - 1 week ago Hopefully there's not a wider impact from the context.ai issue, because it's likely other developers at other companies could also be impacted. Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Upcoming Webinar Popular Stories Threat actor uses Microsoft Teams to deploy new “Snow” malware Microsoft says Outlook.com outage is causing sign‑in failures Microsoft rolls out revamped Windows Insider Program Sponsor Posts Stopping Bot Farms: Spotting Coordinated Signups. Learn More! Think you can't be deepfaked? Make one of yourself for free and see Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free Search 25 billion leaked credentials in 15 minutes for free. Is your credential vault DORA-ready? Audit access controls with Passwork. Upcoming Webinar Follow us: Main Sections News Webinars VPN Buyer Guides SysAdmin Software Guides Downloads Virus Removal Guides Tutorials Startup Database Uninstall Database Glossary Community Forums Forum Rules Chat Useful Resources Welcome Guide Sitemap Company About BleepingComputer Contact Us Send us a Tip! Advertising Write for BleepingComputer Social & Feeds Changelog Terms of Use - Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure Copyright @ 2003 - 2026 Bleeping Computer ® LLC - All Rights Reserved Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT 
