 Vercel's security breach started with malware disguised as Roblox cheats | CyberScoop Skip to main content Advertisement CyberScoop AIScoop FedScoop DefenseScoop StateScoop EdScoop Advertise Search Close Search for: Search Open navigation Topics Back AI Cybercrime Commentary Financial Government Policy Privacy Technology Threats Research Workforce Special Reports Events Podcasts Videos Insights CyberScoop 50 Switch Site CyberScoop AIScoop FedScoop DefenseScoop StateScoop EdScoop Subscribe Advertisement Subscribe to our daily newsletter. Subscribe Close Cybercrime Vercel’s security breach started with malware disguised as Roblox cheats The attack, which originated at Context.ai, showcases the pitfalls of interconnected cloud applications and SaaS integrations with overly privileged permissions. By Matt Kapko April 20, 2026 Listen to this article 0:00 Learn more. This feature uses an automated voice, which may result in occasional errors in pronunciation, tone, or sentiment. Vercel customers are at risk of compromise after an attacker hopped through multiple internal systems to steal credentials and other sensitive data, the company said in a security bulletin Sunday. The attack, which didn’t originate at Vercel, showcases the pitfalls of interconnected cloud applications and SaaS integrations with overly privileged permissions. An attacker traversed third-party systems and connections left exposed by employees before it hit the San Francisco-based company that created and maintains Next.js and other popular open-source libraries. Researchers at Hudson Rock said the seeds of the attack were planted in February when a Context.ai employee’s computer was infected with Lumma Stealer malware after they searched for Roblox game exploits, a common vector for infostealer deployments. Advertisement Each of the companies are pinning at least some blame for the attack on the other vendor. Context.ai on Sunday said that breach allowed the attacker to access its AWS environment and OAuth tokens for some users, including a token for a Vercel employee’s Google Workspace account. Vercel is not a Context customer, but the Vercel employee was using Context AI Office Suite and granted it full access, the artificial intelligence agent company said. “The attacker used that access to take over the employee’s Vercel Google Workspace account, which enabled them to gain access to some Vercel environments and environment variables that were not marked as sensitive,” Vercel said in its bulletin. The company said a limited number of its customers are impacted and were immediately advised to rotate credentials. Vercel, which declined to answer questions, did not specify which internal systems were accessed or fully explain how the attacker gained access to Vercel customers’ credentials. Vercel CEO Guillermo Rauch said customer data stored by the company is fully encrypted, yet the attacker got further access through enumeration, or by counting and inventorying specific variables. Advertisement “We believe the attacking group to be highly sophisticated and, I strongly suspect, significantly accelerated by AI,” he said in a post on X . “They moved with surprising velocity and in-depth understanding of Vercel.” A threat group identifying itself as ShinyHunters took responsibility for the attack in a post on Telegram and is attempting to sell the stolen data, which they claim includes access keys, source code and databases. The attacker “is likely an imposter attempting to use an established name to inflate their notoriety,” Austin Larsen, principal threat analyst at Google Threat Intelligence Group, wrote in a LinkedIn post . “Regardless of the threat actor involved, the exposure risk is real.” Vercel also warned that the attack on Context’s Google Workspace OAuth app “was the subject of a broader compromise, potentially affecting its hundreds of users across many organizations.” It published indicators of compromise and encouraged customers to review activity logs, review and rotate variables containing secrets. Context and Vercel said their separate and coordinated investigations into the attack aided by CrowdStrike and Mandiant remain underway. Written by Matt Kapko Matt Kapko is a reporter at CyberScoop. His beat includes cybercrime, ransomware, software defects and vulnerability (mis)management. The lifelong Californian started his journalism career in 2001 with previous stops at Cybersecurity Dive, CIO, SDxCentral and RCR Wireless News. Matt has a degree in journalism and history from Humboldt State University. In This Story open source CrowdStrike Google supply chain security cybercrime OAuth Mandiant AI supply chain Google Workspace supply chain attacks ShinyHunters open source software Google Threat Intelligence Group AWS Vercel Context.ai Share Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Copy Link Advertisement Advertisement More Like This BlackFile actively extorting data-theft victims in retail and hospitality sector By Matt Kapko Vercel attack fallout expands to more customers and third-party systems By Matt Kapko Supreme Court justices skeptically question both sides in geofence surveillance case By Tim Starks Advertisement Top Stories Senators seek answers about hackers obtaining sensitive student data from ostensibly anonymous tip line By Tim Starks Chinese national extradited to US for pandemic-era Silk Typhoon attacks By Matt Kapko Advertisement More Scoops (Getty Images) OpenAI’s Mac apps need updates thanks to the Axios hack The company said a developer tool automatically retrieved a malicious version of the popular open-source library, but insists the integrity of its systems and software were not… By Matt Kapko (Getty Images) Proofpoint acquires Acuvity to tackle the security risks of agentic AI By Greg Otto (Getty Images) Security leaders at Okta and Zscaler share lessons from Salesloft Drift attacks By Matt Kapko Salesloft Drift security incident started with undetected GitHub access By Matt Kapko Salesloft Drift compromised en masse, impacting all third-party integrations By Matt Kapko Latest Podcasts When iPhone exploits turn into commodities Proving Identity in the age of agents The federal government’s most underrated cybersecurity tool What does industry think of the White House’s cybersecurity strategy? Government Latest spy power reauthorization bill leaves critics unimpressed US, UK agencies warn hackers were hiding on Cisco firewalls long after patches were applied A dozen allied agencies say China is building covert hacker networks out of everyday routers CISA director pick Sean Plankey withdraws his nomination Technology Surveillance campaigns use commercial surveillance tools to exploit long-known telecom vulnerabilities Vuln in Google’s Antigravity AI agent manager could escape sandbox, give attackers remote code execution The FTC’s AI portfolio is about to get bigger Network ‘background noise’ may predict the next big edge-device vulnerability Threats Former DigitalMint ransomware negotiator pleads guilty to extortion scheme Scottish man pleads guilty to attack spree that created Scattered Spider’s notoriety US nationals sentenced for aiding North Korea’s tech worker scheme Officials seize 53 DDoS-for-hire domains in ongoing crackdown Policy Lawmakers ponder terrorism designations, homicide charges over hospital ransomware attacks The surveillance law Congress can't quit — and can't explain Executive orders likely ahead in next steps for national cyber strategy We’re only seeing the tip of the chip-smuggling iceberg Advertisement About Us FedScoop DefenseScoop StateScoop EdScoop CyberScoop AIScoop Newsletters Advertise with us Ad specs (202) 887-8001 hello@cyberscoop.com FB TW LinkedIn IG YT Close Ad Continue to CyberScoop 
