 App host Vercel says it was hacked and customer data stolen | TechCrunch –:–:–:– The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. Register now. The first StrictlyVC of 2026 hits SF on April 30. Tickets are going fast. Register now. Close TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech & Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government & Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media & Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Thomas Fuller/SOPA Images/LightRocket / Getty Images Security App host Vercel says it was hacked and customer data stolen Zack Whittaker 7:45 AM PDT · April 20, 2026 Cloud app hosting giant Vercel this weekend said hackers had breached its internal systems and accessed customer data. Hackers have claimed they have stolen sensitive customer credentials from Vercel’s systems and are selling the data online. In a statement on Sunday , Vercel said the breach originated from another software maker, Context AI. One of Vercel’s employees downloaded an app made by Context AI and connected it to their corporate account, which is hosted by Google. The hackers used that connection (known as OAuth) to take over the Vercel employee’s Google account and gain access to some of Vercel’s internal systems, including credentials that were not encrypted. Vercel says its Next.js and Turbopack projects were not affected by the breach. Both open source projects are widely used by web and app developers. Vercel said it has contacted customers whose app data and keys were compromised. In a post on X , Vercel chief executive Guillermo Rauch advised customers to rotate any keys and credentials in their app deployments that are marked as “non-sensitive.” It’s not clear who is behind the breach at Vercel or Context AI, or if they are the same hacker. The threat actor selling the data claimed to be representing the ShinyHunters hacking group in their listing on a cybercriminal forum. The post, seen by TechCrunch, claimed the hackers were selling access to customer API keys, source code, and database data stolen from Vercel. The ShinyHunters hacker group, known for breaching cloud-based and database companies, told cybersecurity news site Bleeping Computer that they are not involved in this incident. A spokesperson for Vercel did not say how many customers could be affected, but said that the company has not received any communication from the threat actor, such as a demand for ransom. While details of the hack are still emerging, this security breach is the latest in a string of “supply chain” hacks in recent months that have targeted software developers whose code is widely used across the web. By compromising software that’s widely used by companies and supports web infrastructure, hackers can steal credentials from a broad range of targets at once and gain further access to large amounts of data stored by other cloud giants. Vercel said little else about the attack, except that it was investigating the incident and had sought answers from Context AI. Vercel said the hack may affect “hundreds of users across many organizations,” and not just its own system, warning of potential downstream breaches spanning the tech industry. Context AI, which builds evaluations and analytics for AI models, confirmed on its website that it had a breach in March involving its Context AI Office Suite consumer app. The app allows users to automate actions and workflows across multiple third-party applications by way of an unnamed third-party service. Context AI said it notified one customer of the breach, but based on Vercel’s incident, it now believes that the incident is likely broader than first thought. Context AI said the hackers “likely compromised OAuth tokens for some of our consumer users.” Context AI did not respond to a request for comment or questions about the breach. It’s unclear why Context AI did not disclose the breach at the time, or if the company received any demands from the hacker, such as a ransom. Corrected to remove a reference to an unrelated Context AI whose staff were acquired by OpenAI. Updated with comment from Vercel. Topics context ai , cyberattack , cybersecurity , data breach , OpenAI , Security , shinyhunters , Vercel When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. Zack Whittaker Security Editor Zack Whittaker is the security editor at TechCrunch. He also authors the weekly cybersecurity newsletter, this week in security . He can be reached via encrypted message at zackwhittaker.1337 on Signal. You can also contact him by email, or to verify outreach, at zack.whittaker@techcrunch.com . View Bio April 30 San Francisco, CA StrictlyVC kicks off the year in SF. Register now for unfiltered fireside chats and VC insights with leaders from Uber, Replit, Eclipse, and more. Plus, high-value connections that actually move the needle. Tickets are limited. REGISTER NOW Most Popular Two college kids raise a $5.1 million pre-seed to build an AI social network in iMessage Dominic-Madori Davis Meta’s loss is Thinking Machines’ gain Connie Loizos Google to invest up to $40B in Anthropic in cash and compute Rebecca Bellan OpenAI releases GPT-5.5, bringing company one step closer to an AI ‘super app’ Lucas Ropek Microsoft offers buyout for up to 7% of US employees Amanda Silberling Duolingo is now giving users access to advanced learning content Lauren Forristal Unauthorized group has gained access to Anthropic’s exclusive cyber tool Mythos, report claims Lucas Ropek Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct Tim Cook John Ternus New Glenn WhatsApp Mythos Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC. 
