OpenAI just changed its principles. Here’s what’s changing | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletters Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Donald Trump Artificial intelligence Music Iran war Latest stories Travel News World Cup no longer just about football: Digital nomads invade Mexico Europe Today Watch: Champions League semis: When football meets global capital Iran Iran to reopen Strait of Hormuz if US lifts blockade, reports claim Europe Today Violence against women 'has evolved in Europe', says MEP Al-Sahlani Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Sparkle Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Donald Trump Artificial intelligence Music Iran war Latest stories Travel News World Cup no longer just about football: Digital nomads invade Mexico Europe Today Watch: Champions League semis: When football meets global capital Iran Iran to reopen Strait of Hormuz if US lifts blockade, reports claim Europe Today Violence against women 'has evolved in Europe', says MEP Al-Sahlani Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Sparkle Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Newsletters Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Find Us Advertisement Next Tech News OpenAI just changed its principles. Here’s what’s changing FILE - The OpenAI logo is displayed on a cell phone in front of an image generated by ChatGPT's Dall-E text-to-image model, Dec. 8, 2023, in Boston - Copyright AP Photo/Michael Dwyer, File Copyright AP Photo/Michael Dwyer, File By Anna Desmarais Published on 27/04/2026 - 13:23 GMT+2 • Updated 15:02 Share Comments Share Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp What has changed in almost a decade of OpenAI’s mission? Here’s a look at the company’s new ‘principles’ document. OpenAI is less concerned with artificial general intelligence (AGI) than it was almost a decade ago and is instead prioritising a broader rollout of its technology, according to a new mission statement for the company. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT On Sunday, OpenAI published an update to the company’s “Our Principles” document, which sets out how the company will run its technology in the future. There are some key differences between this new set of principles and what the company prioritised almost a decade ago, when it was a nascent non-profit artificial intelligence (AI) research organisation. De-emphasis on artificial general intelligence In 2018 , OpenAI was staunchly focused on artificial general superintelligence (AGI): the idea that their technology would surpass human intelligence, but now, it is just part of the company’s wider AI rollout. Both versions of the company’s principles say that OpenAI’s mission is to guarantee this technology “benefits all of humanity,” but the 2018 version explicitly mentions building it safely and beneficially. “Our primary fiduciary duty is to humanity,” the document reads. “We anticipate needing to marshal substantial resources to fulfil our mission, but will always diligently act to minimise conflicts of interest among our employees and stakeholders that could compromise broad benefit.” Related What is OpenAI’s GPT-5.5, its newest ‘smartest and most intuitive’ model? The 2026 version , however, said it needs to continue to build safe systems, but that society needs to contend with “each successive level of AI capability, understand it, integrate it, and figure out the best path forward together.” The way forward, as CEO and cofounder Sam Altman sees it in 2026, is to democratise AI at all levels by giving everyone access to it and resisting the idea that the technology could “consolidate power in the hands of the few”. The 2026 principles document also said that it expects OpenAI to work with governments, international agencies and other AGI initiatives to “sufficiently solve serious alignment, safety or societal problems before proceeding further” with its work. Some examples of doing that could include using ChatGPT to fight back against models that could create new pathogens or integrate cyber-resilient models into critical infrastructure. Altman gave some clues for OpenAI’s de-emphasis of AGI on his personal blog earlier this month. AGI has a “ring of power” to it that “makes people do crazy things,” Altman wrote. To fight back, he said the only solution is to “orient towards sharing the technology with people broadly, and for no one to have the ring.” OpenAI will no longer step aside to compete with a safety product In 2018, OpenAI said it was concerned that AGI development was becoming “a competitive race without time for adequate safety precautions.” It was committed to putting a stop to its own models to assist any project that was “value-aligned, [and] a safety-conscious project,” which comes closer to building AGI. “We will work out specifics… but a typical triggering condition might be a ‘better-than-even chance of success in the next two years,” the 2018 document reads. In 2026, there is no mention of stepping aside to help a greater cause. Instead, the document acknowledges that OpenAI “is a much larger force in the world than it was a few years ago,” and pledges to be transparent about when and how its operating principles could change. Related Elon Musk's xAI discussed partnership with Mistral to try and rival OpenAI and Anthropic, report The company has been in major competition with several rivals, including Anthropic. In February, Anthropic refused to give the US President Donald Trump’s administration unfettered access to its AI for the military, which led to the company being labelled a supply chain risk and ordered federal agents to stop using Anthropic's AI assistant Claude in March. On February 28, OpenAI then stepped in to fill the void, signing a deal with the Department of War, which saw some users boycotting ChatGPT in favour of Claude. Anthropic was also valued this month at $800 billion (€696 billion), on par with OpenAI. Vague society-wide callouts In the 2026 document, OpenAI asks for several societal changes so the world can better adapt to AI. “We envision a world with widespread flourishing at a level that is currently difficult to imagine,” the document reads. “A lot of the things we’ve only let ourselves dream about in sci-fi could become reality, and most people could live more meaningful lives than most are able to today.” Related Robot taxes, four-day work week: Inside OpenAI’s plan for an AI-driven economy This future is not guaranteed, because AI can either be “held by a small handful of companies using and controlling superintelligence,” or “held in a decentralised way by people,” the document reads. The principles document also reiterates some of OpenAI’s recent policy suggestions , such as asking governments to consider “new economic models” and to develop new technology that will drive down the costs of AI infrastructure. “A lot of the things that we do that look weird—buying huge amounts of compute while our revenue is relatively small… are driven by our fundamental belief in a future of universal prosperity,” the document reads. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share Comments Read more Tech News Auto China 2026: China's auto giants are rewriting Europe's car market Mobility Could this short take-off and landing aeroplane cut travel time? Tech News Can Europe keep its industrial champions in the AI era? AI Artificial intelligence Open AI ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Top stories Why Elon Musk and Sam Altman are going to trial over OpenAI Which country in Europe has the most data centres driving the AI boom? Inside Japan’s real-life sci-fi town where robots coexist with humans China blocks Meta from buying AI startup Manus Auto China 2026: China's auto giants are rewriting Europe's car market ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 Which country in Europe has the most data centres driving the AI boom? 2 Could this short take-off and landing aeroplane cut travel time? 3 Auto China 2026: China's auto giants are rewriting Europe's car market 4 Space systems: Prepared or at risk? |Euronews Tech Talks Podcast 5 Inside the factory behind Xiaomi's European smartphone push ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Browse today's tags US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Donald Trump Artificial intelligence Music Iran war China Technology France Controversy AI Middle East Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Earth Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Transparency Contact Work at Euronews Our journalists Accessibility: non-compliant Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2026