 Final Atlas 5 Amazon Leo mission launches - SpaceNews Close Subscribe Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Latest Civil Commercial Launch Military Opinion Policy & Politics Video & Audio Open dropdown menu Virtual Events Space Minds Podcast First Up Audio Commerical Space Transformers Leading Women Newsletters Magazine Events Open dropdown menu Virtual Events Icon Awards Events Calendar Submit Your Event Sponsored Open dropdown menu SN Focus Press Releases Open dropdown menu Latest Post a Press Release Job Board Shop Work With Us Open dropdown menu Audience Advertise Editorial Calendar Ad Portal Contact Us More Open dropdown menu About SpaceNews FAQs Contact Us Facebook Page X LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Close Skip to content SpaceNews Covering the business and politics of space Subscribe Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu Latest Civil Commercial Launch Military Opinion Policy & Politics Video & Audio Open dropdown menu Virtual Events Space Minds Podcast First Up Audio Commerical Space Transformers Leading Women Newsletters Magazine Events Open dropdown menu Virtual Events Icon Awards Events Calendar Submit Your Event Sponsored Open dropdown menu SN Focus Press Releases Open dropdown menu Latest Post a Press Release Job Board Shop Work With Us Open dropdown menu Audience Advertise Editorial Calendar Ad Portal Contact Us More Open dropdown menu About SpaceNews FAQs Contact Us Open Search Search for: Search TOPICS: Artemis SpaceX NASA Golden Dome Europe China Funding Rounds Civil Commercial Launch Military Home / Final Atlas 5 Amazon Leo mission launches Posted in Launch Final Atlas 5 Amazon Leo mission launches by Jeff Foust July 2, 2026 July 2, 2026 Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email An Atlas 5 551 lifts off July 2 carrying a set of Amazon Leo satellites. Credit: ULA WASHINGTON — An Atlas 5 lifted off July 2 carrying a set of Amazon Leo satellites in the final launch by that vehicle to carry a satellite payload. The Atlas 5 lifted off from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station at 12:30 a.m. Eastern. The rocket carried 29 Amazon Leo satellites that were deployed starting 21 minutes after liftoff. The deployments were completed 16 minutes later. With this launch, Amazon Leo has more than 390 satellites in orbit. “Still lots of work ahead — including raising all these new satellites to their assigned altitude — but we’ve completed enough launches for initial service this year, and future missions just add coverage and capacity,” Chris Weber, Amazon Leo vice president, said in a social media post . The launch was the last of nine Atlas missions that Amazon purchased from United Launch Alliance in 2021 for its broadband constellation, originally called Project Kuiper. The first was used for a pair of prototype satellites in 2023 , and the other eight launched operational satellites starting in April 2025 . In 2022, Amazon announced launch contracts to deploy the full constellation , including with ULA for the Vulcan Centaur. Amazon acquired 38 Vulcan launches but has yet to use one given that rocket’s development delays and the availability of the remaining Atlas 5 vehicles. “Atlas 5 has played a critical role in the early deployment phase for Amazon Leo, launching 224 satellites with a 100% success rate across all eight missions, and we’re excited to build on that foundation with ULA as we transition to Vulcan,” said Melissa Wuerl, Amazon Leo director of launch systems, in a statement. Vulcan has not launched since a Space Force mission in February that had an anomaly with one of its solid-rocket boosters, and ULA has not disclosed when it anticipates resuming launches. Amazon, though, is gearing up to use the rocket. In addition to Atlas, Amazon has flown three times on Arianespace’s Ariane 6 as well as SpaceX’s Falcon 9. “With hundreds of flight-ready satellites standing by at the Cape and a new, dedicated vertical integration facility ready to support Leo Vulcan 1 and subsequent missions, we have a clear path to increase launch and deployment cadence, helping us quickly expand network coverage following an initial service rollout later this year,” Wuerl said. The launch is the final flight of the Atlas 5 carrying satellite payloads. The remaining six Atlas 5 vehicles in storage are reserved for Boeing’s CST-100 Starliner. The schedule for when, or if, those launches will take place is uncertain because of technical problems with Starliner . With this launch, the Atlas 5 has flown 110 times since its introduction in 2002. All were fully successful except for a 2007 launch for the National Reconnaissance Office in which the Centaur upper stage shut down early on its second burn, leaving the payload in a lower orbit than planned but one that the spacecraft could correct. The Atlas 5 is the last in a family of vehicles to carry the Atlas name that dates back to the beginning of the Space Age, when Atlas was developed as an intercontinental ballistic missile. Related Tagged: Amazon Leo , Atlas 5 , SN , ULA Jeff Foust Jeff Foust writes about space policy, commercial space, and related topics for SpaceNews. He earned a Ph.D. in planetary sciences from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a bachelor’s degree with honors in geophysics and planetary science... More by Jeff Foust Post navigation Previous Report links Starliner problems to overconfidence and unrealistic schedules Next Making satellite communications more resilient Stellar Dispatch all dispatches >> Connected Aircraft Fleet Set to Exceed 70,000 by 2035 Centre for Space Futures, Novaspace and SpaceTech Gulf Sign Agreement to Develop Global Space Capability Mapping Dashboard TechnoMile Recognized among Notable Vendors in Contract Lifecycle Management Platforms Landscape Report Matthew Williams Joins the Commercial Space Federation as Senior Advisor, National Security Craft Prospect selected for The Sunday Times Scotland Fast 50 Job Exchange all jobs >> Back to top About About SpaceNews Advertise Subscribe Subscribe Now Newsletters Get Magazine Reprints Events & Job Board View Events Calendar Submit Your Event SpaceNews Job Board Follow us on X LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Facebook RSS Feed Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy © 2026 SpaceNews. All Rights Reserved. Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement Facebook Page X LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By creating a SpaceNews.com account, you acknowledge that you have read our privacy policy and agree to our terms and conditions. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now To continue reading this article: Register now to get 2 more free articles this month. You’ll also receive our weekly Editor’s Choice, SpaceNews This Week and Opinions newsletters. Opt-out at any time. Sign up Sign in to an existing account Get unlimited access to SpaceNews.com, the SpaceNews app and our digital monthly magazine for less than $5 per week. $250 /year Subscribe now Cancel anytime. Sales tax may apply. No refunds. Terms and conditions apply . See all subscription options Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close Complete your transaction Close Digital All-Access Subscription (Monthly) $ 25.00 / month Digital All-Access Subscription (Quarterly) $ 70.00 every 3 months Digital All-Access Subscription (Yearly) $ 250 / year Digital All-Access Subscription (2 Years) $ 450 every 2 years Purchase Sign in to an existing account Cancel 