 Amazon Leo constellation nears 400 satellites as broadband launch looms Jump to main content Search TOPICS Security All Security Cyber-crime Patches Research CSO Off-Prem All Off-Prem Edge and IoT Channel PaaS and IaaS SaaS On-Prem All On-Prem Systems Storage Networks HPC Personal Tech Cx0 Public Sector Software All Software AI and ML Applications Databases DevOps OS Platforms Virtualization Offbeat All Offbeat Columnists Science BOFH Legal Site News About Us Special Features All Special Features HPE: AI Explainers RSA Conference Agentic AI The Future of the Datacenter AWS:Reinvent Nvidia GTC Supercomputing Month Computex 2026 AI Infrastructure Month 2026 Vendor Voice All Vendor Voice Modernizing Financial Services with FIS and AWS Barco Infinidat Everpure Rubrik Make it real with Capgemini and AWS Money Movement Hub ZTE Nutanix: Scale Kubernetes. Not Chaos. AWS New Horizon Resources Intelligence Webinars & Events Newsletters Search Sign in AI Security Microsoft AWS Developer Open Source Columnists BOFH Who, Me? On Call REG AD NETWORKS Amazon Leo constellation nears 400 satellites as broadband launch looms Online emporium's Starlink rival says it will start service later this year as another 29 birds reach orbit Dan Robinson Dan Robinson Published fri 3 Jul 2026 // 17:06 UTC Amazon says it is preparing to roll out satellite broadband this year after the latest rocket launch brought its Leo constellation up to 396 units. The digital bazaar and cloud computing giant reports that an Atlas V rocket launch on July 2 successfully propelled 29 satellites into low Earth orbit for the Amazon Leo network, formerly known as Project Kuiper until November last. Amazon hasn't finished flinging its hardware into orbit just yet, but said it is planning to begin providing an actual service through the network sometime this year. REG AD “With hundreds of flight-ready satellites standing by at the Cape and a new, dedicated vertical integration facility ready to support Leo Vulcan 1 and subsequent missions, we have a clear path to increase launch and deployment cadence, helping us quickly expand network coverage following an initial service rollout later this year," said director of Launch Systems Melissa Wuerl. REG AD Amazon Leo was originally conceived as a broadband-from-space setup, just like its main rival, Starlink. According to the Bezos-founded biz, it will offer download speeds ranging from 100 Mbps to 1 Gbps, depending on which of three antenna options customers choose. But in April this year, Amazon agreed to pay more than $11.5 billion to acquire Globalstar and its constellation of 24 satellites. Globalstar provides the satellite network used for Apple's satellite services, introduced with the iPhone 14 in 2022, which would give Amazon a foothold in direct-to-device satellite communications as well. MORE CONTEXT Amazon Leo's satellite homework is late, but FCC won't flunk it just yet Amazon pays $11.5B to satisfy satellite-envy while cowering in Musk's shadow Vodafone to use Amazon sats for cell backhaul in remote parts of Europe, Africa Starlink speeds past terrestrial networks – and regulators With 396 satellites in low Earth orbit, Amazon has far fewer than Starlink, which boasts about 10,400 in operation at the moment. The firm has plans to loft more than 7,700 of its own eventually, but currently has a licence from the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for a cluster of 3,232. The terms of that licence required Amazon to have 50 percent of its planned constellation in orbit by July 30, 2026 – a deadline it is clearly going to miss. The company sought an extension in January, and this was granted last month , but with strings attached. Whether Amazon will be able to compete against Starlink, which has a significant head start, depends on a number of factors, such as the quality of service on offer. Its top-tier offering of 1 Gbps has a higher advertised maximum download speed than Starlink's current residential tiers, although real-world performance has yet to be established. Amazon has also yet to disclose what price tag its service will carry. Starlink's US residential plans cost up to $130 a month, with equipment charges varying by plan and location. UK telecoms regulator Ofcom granted Amazon Leo a license to beam its broadband down to Brit consumers over a year ago. ® networks amazon spacex satellite broadband REG AD SECURITY Spain collars alleged pro-Russia hacktivist after FBI tip-off Palencia man suspected of links to CARR, Z-Pentest, and NoName057(16), plus helping a Ukrainian hacker flee to Russia Security Government's cyber pledge lands 60 signatories, including M&S and, somehow, Capita Whitehall's latest attempt to boost corporate cyber hygiene has already produced a curious roll call In a volatile world, a consistent sustainability policy is critical SPONSORED FEATURE: ZTE unveils 2025 milestones ai and ml MPs tell Brit government: Sort out your tech sovereignty or get left out in the cold Committee says Anthropic's brief US export ban shows UK can't even trust its allies to keep the AI lights on columnists Insert token to continue, says AI. Yeah, about that... Barney Rubble points to bubble trouble ON-PREM UK guts planning red tape so datacenters can bypass the neighbors faster Overhaul of process could give NIMBYs one year less to complain MOST POPULAR ai and ml Even banks and hyperscalers are now sounding the alarm about the AI bubble Security Hackers shoveled snow for company, were rewarded with network admin access os platforms Former Microsoft engineer shrinks Notepad down to size AI AND ML New humanoid robots from China look like creepy pop star action figures – complete with slightly dodgy lip-synch OFFBEAT C programmers commit fresh crimes against readability AI Science Boffins bet on quantum computers, AI supers to solve fusion fuel dilemma Department of Energy, Cleveland Clinic, and IBM simulate a soup of molten salts and techno babble in pursuit of tritium AI and ML Software engineers can still rake in big bucks by working for fast-growing companies AI's impact on tech business is complicated software Microsoft says the world is changing faster than it can keep up as it guts commercial, Xbox teams Xbox chief says company can't afford to mistake longevity for inevitability AI and ML AMD’s Ryzen AI Halo makes local AI look easy, but at $4K, easy doesn't come cheap 128 GB of memory! In this economy? AI and ML Nvidia floats double-dipping datacenter financing scheme What's better than getting paid once? Getting paid twice of course Infosec Security Russians are posing as Signal support to launch phishing attacks PLUS: US takes down Iranian propaganda sites; Marketing company asks 'Why Do We Have Your Information?' And more! Security Microsoft patches failed to fix on-prem SharePoint, which is now under zero-day attack PLUS: China upgrades smartphone surveillance tools; Ring eases anti-snooping stance; and more Black Hat and DEF CON DEF CON Franklin project enlists hackers to harden critical infrastructure Voting village reports have been so successful, says Jeff Moss, that the whole of DEF CON will now be included Security EQT buys majority share in Swiss cybersecurity biz Acronis Went at equivalent of $3.5B+ valuation for entire firm, though portion sold not specified Malware Month Ten years since the first corp ransomware, Mikko Hyppönen sees no end in sight On the plus side, infosec's a good bet for a long, stable career FOSS Collabora releases CODE 26.04 as rivalry between FOSS cloudy office suites heats up Now with Markdown support and smarter formula error handling – plus integrated AI, though it's off by default Blast from the past as GIMP 0.54 is revived in Flatpak form Retro-computing fun for the nostalgic with first (and last) release to use Motif instead of GTK Bcachefs exits experimental status in new 'performance release' More Rust, but more trouble with AI slop, too France's digital sovereignty push is struggling to escape the Microsoft gravity well Nextcloud rollout shows locally controlled storage is one thing; getting users off Office is quite another History of CentOS: How a biochemist's Linux hobby project became the enterprise world's default operating system When a community came together after Red Hat said Windows was 'probably the right product' Netflix wiz creates app to slash AI bills, then open sources it Project Headroom could save you big money, too ✕ Biting the hand that feeds IT About Us Contact us Advertise with us Who we are Newsletter Our Websites The Next Platform DevClass Blocks and Files Situation Publishing Your Privacy Cookies Policy Privacy Policy Ts & Cs Do not share my personal information Your Consent Options Archives 27 years of articles Copyright. All rights reserved © 1998-2026. 